---
title: CSC 217 Lab 12 - Graphical User Interfaces
tags: [software engineering, software lifecycle, CS2, CSC 217, Lab12]
description: CSC 217 Lab 12 - Deployment
navigation: on
pagegroup: 12-lab
---
# CSC 217 Lab 12 Deployment
{% include iconHeader.html type="deploy" %}
When you deploy your software, you release it to your customer.  For CSC 217, that means your work is ready for evaluation by the teaching staff.  We will evaluate your work against the [Lab 11 rubric](#lab-11-rubric).  As you compare your submission against the rubric and make your final push to GitHub, you should complete these final checks:

  * You have met the [requirements](11-lab-requirements) and [design](11-lab-design) for the [Lab 11 `PackScheduler`](../11-lab) project.
  * You have a green ball on [your lab section's Jenkins](#lab-deadlines--jenkins-servers) (No test failures and no static analysis notifications).
  * All student unit tests pass with a green bar (0 errors).
  * At least 80% statement coverage on non-UI classes. We now have a check for coverage of > 80% for each class.  If you don't have coverage of > 80% line coverage for every non-UI class, you will have a yellow ball and the teaching staff tests will not run.
  * All teaching staff JUnit tests pass with a green bar (0 errors).
  * There are no FindBugs notifications.
  * There are no PMD notifications.
  * There are no CheckStyle notifications.
  * All design files are in the appropriate locations and pushed to GitHub.
  * All code is commented with meaningful comments.
  * [Javadoc webpages](#generate-javadoc) are generated with the latest comments.
  * That you [meet all rubric items for the assignment](#lab-11-rubric).

Make sure that [you push all code and other required artifacts to GitHub](#push-to-github) by the [assignment deadline](#lab-deadlines--jenkins-servers).  [Check your Jenkins results](#check-jenkins) on [your lab's Jenkins server](#lab-deadlines--jenkins-servers)  **Lab assignments will not be accepted late!**

 
## Generate Javadoc
Commenting your code is important! Comments describe what the code is supposed to do. At a minimum, you should comment your classes, fields, and methods. All methods should be Javadoc-ed, including methods that were automatically generated by Eclipse. When working with CSC 216 projects, you should delete any automatically generated non-Javadoc documentation and replace it with Javadoc appropriate for the overridden method.

Java provides the Javadoc tool to generate a set of web pages that display the comments for your code.

{% capture callout_content %}
To generate Javadoc, you need to [configure and run the Javadoc tool](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc216/guided-projects/gp1/gp1-javadoc#configure-and-run-javadoc-for-your-project), [fix Javadoc errors and warnings](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc216/guided-projects/gp1/gp1-javadoc#fix-javadoc-errors-and-warnings), and [check the generated Javadoc pages](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc216/guided-projects/gp1/gp1-javadoc#check-generated-javadoc-pages).  Make sure you push your changes to GitHub!
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="dtTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Generating Javadoc" %}

 
## Lab Checks
There are several checks that will occur during your build to ensure that you're following software engineering best practices:

  * Library checks: You have been working with the `SortedList` class that is part of the CSC 217Collections library.  Additionally, you've created custom `ArrayList` and `LinkedAbstractList` implementations.  You must remove all of your references to `java.util.ArrayList` and `java.util.LinkedList` from your project - including the Javadoc.  If you receive a red ball and a message in the console output about using `java.util.ArrayList` or `java.util.LinkedList`, search your project for the string and regenerate your Javadoc!
  * Coverage checks: You must have 80% coverage for *each* non-GUI and non-test class in `PackScheduler`.  A tool will check that you have passed the 80% threshold before running any of the teaching tests.



## Push to GitHub
Push your `PackScheduler` project to [GitHub](https://github.ncsu.edu)

  * Add the unstaged changes to the index.
  * Commit and push changes.  Remember to use a meaningful commit message describing how you have changed the code.  


{% capture callout_content %}
GitHub Resources:

  * [Staging Files](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/git/git-staging)
  * [Committing Files](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/git/git-commit)
  * [Pushing Files](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/git/git-push)
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="vcTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Staging and Pushing to GitHub" %}


## Check Jenkins
Check your project on Jenkins to ensure that you are making progress.


{% capture callout_content %}
Check the following items on Jenkins for [your last build](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#build-summary-page) and use the results to [estimate your grade](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#grade-estimation-example):

  * [Test Results](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#test-results)
  * [FindBugs Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#findbugs-report)
  * [CheckStyle Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#checkstyle-report)
  * [PMD Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#pmd-report)
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="ciTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Interpreting Jenkins" %}