---
title: CSC 217 Lab 02 - Software Engineering Best Practices
tags: [software engineering, software lifecycle, CS2, CSC 217, Lab02]
description: Deploy
navigation: on
pagegroup: 02-lab
---

When you have deployed your software, you have released it to your customer.  For CSC 217, that means your work is ready for evaluation by the teaching staff.  We will evaluate your work against the [Lab 02 rubric](#lab-rubric).  As you compare your submission against the rubric and make your final push to GitHub, you will complete these final tasks:

{% include iconHeader.html type="deployment" %}

  * You have met the [requirements](02-lab-requirements) and [design](02-lab-design) for the `PackScheduler` project
  * You have a green check on [your lab section's Jenkins](#lab-deadlines-jenkins-servers) (No test failures and no static analysis notifications)
  * All student unit tests pass with a green bar (0 errors)
  * At least 80% statement coverage on `Student`, `StudentRecordIO`, and `StudentDirectory` (Note you may have a green check on Jenkins and lose points here.  When grading, we look at each class individually.  Jenkins gives a green check for an average of 80% statement coverage.  A green check for coverage does NOT mean full credit for coverage!)
  * All teaching staff JUnit tests pass with a green bar (0 errors)
  * You have run system level black box tests on your submission and reported actual results of execution
  * There are no FindBugs notifications
  * There are no PMD notifications
  * There are no CheckStyle notifications
  * All code is commented with meaningful comments
  * [Javadoc webpages](#generate-javadoc) are generated with the latest comments
  * That you [meet all rubric items for the assignment](#lab-rubric)

Make sure that [all code and other required artifacts are pushed to GitHub](#push-to-github) by the [assignment deadline](#lab-deadlines-jenkins-servers).  [Check your Jenkins results](#check-jenkins) on [your lab's Jenkins server](#lab-deadlines-jenkins-servers)  **Lab assignments will not be accepted late!**

## Collaboration Check-in
Students working on teams must complete the [collaboration check-in]({{site.data.labs.collab-check}}) before the lab deadline.


## Lab Deadlines & Jenkins Servers
All labs are due 10 minutes before the start of the next lab.  Additionally, each lab section has their own dedicated lab Jenkins server.  The table below provides the deadline and server URL for each lab section.

{% include lab_deadlines.md mon=site.data.labs.lab02.mon02 tues=site.data.labs.lab02.tues02 wed=site.data.labs.lab02.wed02 %}

{% capture callout_content %}
To generate Javadoc, you need to [configure and run the Javadoc tool](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc216/guided-projects/gp1/gp1-javadoc#configure-and-run-javadoc-for-your-project), [fix Javadoc errors and warnings](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc216/guided-projects/gp1/gp1-javadoc#fix-javadoc-errors-and-warnings), and [check the generated Javadoc pages](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc216/guided-projects/gp1/gp1-javadoc#check-generated-javadoc-pages).  Make sure you push your changes to GitHub!
{% endcapture %}
{% include mention.html content=callout_content icon="dtTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Generating Javadoc" %}
## Generate Javadoc
Commenting your code is important! Comments describe what the code is supposed to do. At a minimum, you should comment your classes, fields, and methods. All methods should be Javadoc-ed, including methods that were automatically generated by Eclipse. When working with CSC 217 projects, you should delete any automatically generated non-Javadoc documentation and replace it with Javadoc appropriate for the overridden method.

Java provides the Javadoc tool to generate a set of web pages that display the comments for your code.

We recommend deleting your existing `doc/` directory before generating your Javadoc to ensure that all changes are there.  Make sure that you're pointing to the `doc/` directory in your `PackScheduler` project (and not your `WolfScheduler` project).





{% include rubric.md project="lab02" extra-credit="true" %} 

{% capture reminder-content %} 
GitHub Resources:

  * [Staging Files](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/git/git-staging)
  * [Committing Files](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/git/git-commit)
  * [Pushing Files](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/git/git-push)
{% endcapture %} {% include mention.html content=reminder-content type="reminder" title="Reference: Staging and Pushing to GitHub"%} 
## Push to GitHub
Finalize your submission by pushing all of your code and other project artifacts to [GitHub](https://github.ncsu.edu)

  * Ensure all classes and methods are fully commented and your Javadoc pages are up to date.
  * Add the unstaged changes to the index.
  * Commit and push changes.  Remember to use a meaningful commit message describing how you have changed the code.  


{% capture reminder-content %}
Check the following items on Jenkins for [your last build](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#build-summary-page) and use the results to [estimate your grade](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#grade-estimation-example):

  * [Test Results](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#test-results)
  * [Coverage Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#coverage-report)
  * [FindBugs Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#findbugs-report)
  * [CheckStyle Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#checkstyle-report)
  * [PMD Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#pmd-report)
{% endcapture %}
{% include mention.html content=reminder-content icon="ciTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Interpreting Jenkins" %}
## Check Jenkins
Ensure that your Jenkins job is reflecting the results that you expect for the level of completion of your lab assignment.

