---
title: CSC 217 Lab 03 - Collections
tags: [software engineering, software lifecycle, CS2, CSC 217, Lab03]
description: Deploy
navigation: on
pagegroup: 03-lab
---

When you deploy your software, you release it to your customer.  For CSC 217, that means your work is ready for evaluation by the teaching staff.  We will evaluate your work against the [Lab 03 rubric](#lab-rubric).  As you compare your submission against the rubric and make your final push to GitHub, you will complete these final tasks:

{% include iconHeader.html type="deployment" %}

  * You have met the [requirements](03-lab-requirements) and [design](03-lab-design) for the [Lab 03 `PackScheduler`](../03-lab) project.
  * You have a green check on [your lab section's Jenkins](#lab-deadlines--jenkins-servers) (No test failures and no static analysis notifications).
  * All student unit tests pass with a green bar (0 errors).
  * At least 80% statement coverage on `Student`, `StudentRecordIO`, and `StudentDirectory`. (Note you may have a green check on Jenkins and lose points here.  When grading, we look at each class individually.  Jenkins gives a green check for average of 80% statement coverage at the project level!  A green check for coverage does NOT mean full credit for coverage!)
  * All teaching staff JUnit tests pass with a green bar (0 errors).
  * You have run system tests on your submission and reported actual results of execution.
  * There are no SpotBugs notifications.
  * There are no PMD notifications.
  * There are no CheckStyle notifications.
  * All code is commented with meaningful comments.
  * [Javadoc webpages](#generate-javadoc) are generated with the latest comments.
  * That you [meet all rubric items for the assignment](#lab-rubric).

Make sure that [you push all code and other required artifacts to GitHub](#push-to-github) by the [assignment deadline](#lab-deadlines--jenkins-servers).  [Check your Jenkins results](#check-jenkins) on [your lab's Jenkins server](#lab-deadlines--jenkins-servers)  **Lab assignments will not be accepted late!**

{% capture callout_content %}
To generate Javadoc, you need to [configure and run the Javadoc tool](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc216/guided-projects/gp1/gp1-javadoc#configure-and-run-javadoc-for-your-project), [fix Javadoc errors and warnings](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc216/guided-projects/gp1/gp1-javadoc#fix-javadoc-errors-and-warnings), and [check the generated Javadoc pages](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc216/guided-projects/gp1/gp1-javadoc#check-generated-javadoc-pages).  Make sure you push your changes to GitHub!
{% endcapture %}
{% include mention.html content=callout_content icon="dtTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Generating Javadoc" %}
## Generate Javadoc
Commenting your code is important! Comments describe what the code is supposed to do. At a minimum, you should comment your classes, fields, and methods. All methods should be Javadoc-ed, including methods that were automatically generated by Eclipse. When working with CSC 217 projects, you should delete any automatically generated non-Javadoc documentation and replace it with Javadoc appropriate for the overridden method.

Java provides the Javadoc tool to generate a set of web pages that display the comments for your code.




## Lab Checks
There are several checks that will occur during your build to ensure that you're following software engineering best practices:

  * Library checks: For Lab 03, you'll be working with the `SortedList` class that is part of the CSC217Collections library.  All of your references to `ArrayList` MUST be removed from your project - including the Javadoc.  If you receive a red ball and a message in the console output about using `ArrayList` search your project for the string and regenerate your Javadoc!
  * Coverage checks: You must have 80% coverage for *each* non-GUI and non-test class in `PackScheduler`.  A tool will check that you have passed the 80% threshold before running any of the teaching tests.

{% capture callout_content %}
Now that we're using the `SortedList` library, all references to `java.util.ArrayList` should be removed from your `PackScheduler` system.  Automated grading on Jenkins will be checking that there are no references to `java.util.ArrayList` in your project.  This is a global check, and will consider ALL files in your project!  If a reference to `java.util.ArrayList` is found, Jenkins will fail the build and not run the teaching staff tests.

So where should you look to remove references to `ArrayList`?

  * Import statements in all classes
  * Source Javadoc that has a link to `java.util.ArrayList`
  * Generated Javadoc that references `java.util.ArrayList`
  
Finding and removing a reference to `java.util.ArrayList` in your generated Javadoc can be tedious.  The easiest way to remove any reference to `java.util.ArrayList` in generated Javadoc is to: 

  1. Remove references to `java.util.ArrayList` in your source code.
  2. Delete your `doc/` folder
  3. Regenerate your Javadoc on your updated code.
  
We want to purge your code of references to `java.util.ArrayList` now because from this point on, you're no longer allowed to use the Java Collections Framework in your code!  One of the learning outcomes in CSC216 is to **implement** and **test** your own linear data structures.  Future labs will cover writing your own `ArrayList` and `LinkedList`, which will then be used in `PackScheduler` rather than any Java Collections Framework classes!
{% endcapture %}
{% include callout.html content=callout_content icon="plTool" type="reminder" title="Removing References to `ArrayList`" %}

## Collaboration Check-in
Students working on teams must complete the [collaboration check-in]({{site.data.labs.collab-check}}) before the lab deadline.


## Lab Deadlines & Jenkins Servers
{% include iconHeader.html type="overview" %}
All labs are due 10 minutes before the start of the next lab.  Additionally, each lab section has their own dedicated lab Jenkins server.  The table below provides the deadline and server URL for each lab section for the current semester.

{% include lab_deadlines.md mon=site.data.labs.lab03.mon03 tues=site.data.labs.lab03.tues03 wed=site.data.labs.lab03.wed03 %}

{% include rubric.md project="lab03"  %} 

{% capture reminder-content %} 
GitHub Resources:

  * [Staging Files](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/git/git-staging)
  * [Committing Files](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/git/git-commit)
  * [Pushing Files](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/git/git-push)
{% endcapture %} {% include mention.html content=reminder-content type="reminder" title="Reference: Staging and Pushing to GitHub"%} 
## Push to GitHub
Finalize your submission by pushing all of your code and other project artifacts to [GitHub](https://github.ncsu.edu)

  * Ensure all classes and methods are fully commented and your Javadoc pages are up to date.
  * Add the unstaged changes to the index.
  * Commit and push changes.  Remember to use a meaningful commit message describing how you have changed the code.  
  * Check that all files have been pushed to the remote [GitHub](https://github.ncsu.edu).



{% capture reminder-content %}
Check the following items on Jenkins for [your last build](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#build-summary-page) and use the results to [estimate your grade](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#grade-estimation-example):

  * [Test Results](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#test-results)
  * [Coverage Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#coverage-report)
  * [FindBugs Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#findbugs-report)
  * [CheckStyle Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#checkstyle-report)
  * [PMD Report](https://pages.github.ncsu.edu/engr-csc-software-development/practices-tools/jenkins/#pmd-report)
{% endcapture %}
{% include mention.html content=reminder-content icon="ciTool" type="reminder" title="Reminder: Interpreting Jenkins" %}
## Check Jenkins
Ensure that your Jenkins job is reflecting the results that you expect for the level of completion of your lab assignment.

